sortify_ux.md, before:

# Sortify App UX Flow

## Landing Page
- **Purpose**: Introduce the app with a "log in with Spotify" button.
- **User Actions**:
  - Watch a video demo of the app's features.
  - Read a description of the app and its functions.

## Log In
- **Purpose**: Securely log in and select playlists to import.
- **User Actions**:
  - Log in with Spotify.
  - A dropdown list shows all Spotify playlists for selection.
  - Import playlists into the app, with an option to select multiple playlists or use an " import all music" button.

## Dashboard
- **Purpose**: View and manage imported playlists.
- **User Actions**:
  - View imported playlists with average stats (e.g., "this playlist has x% danceability").
  - Use "add to staging" next to each playlist or "add all to staging" for bulk actions.
  - Add a specific song that is not in the playlists you've selected

## Staging
- **Purpose**: Fine-tune and organize tracks or playlists before finalizing.
- **User Actions**:
  - Review at the track level or playlist level in the staging area. 
  - Apply actions like sorting or creating specific mood playlists (gym, chill, sad).
  - There is a general "sort" button and more specific actions.

## Confirm Popup
- **Purpose**: Finalize and confirm additions to Spotify.
- **User Actions**:
  - Receive a "confirm and add to Spotify?" prompt after sorting.
  - Choose to confirm or return to editing.

## Settings
- **Purpose**: Customize app settings and preferences.
- **User Actions**:
  - Disconnect from Spotify.
  - Set preferences for automatic updates.
  - Choose between dark mode or light mode.
  - Manage notifications.

---

Commit message:

Added MongoDB Research, minor changes to UX
UX changes based on in person conversation on 2/28

sortify_ux.md, after:

# Sortify App UX Flow

## Landing Page

- **Purpose**: Introduce the app with a "log in with Spotify" button.
- **User Actions**:
  - Watch a video demo of the app's features.
  - Read a description of the app and its functions.

## Log In

- **Purpose**: Securely log in and select playlists to import.
- **User Actions**:
  - Log in with Spotify.
  - A dropdown list shows all Spotify playlists for selection.
  - Import playlists into the app, with an option to select multiple playlists or use an " import all music" button.

## Dashboard

- **Purpose**: View and manage imported playlists.
- **User Actions**:
  - View imported playlists.
  - Use "add to staging" next to each playlist or "add all to staging" for bulk actions.

## Staging

- **Purpose**: Fine-tune and organize tracks or playlists before finalizing.
- **User Actions**:
  - Review at the track level or playlist level in the staging area.
  - Apply actions like sorting or creating specific mood playlists (gym, chill, sad).
  - When you start a sorting operation, the app prompts you for 5 sample songs which the sort is based on

## Confirm Popup

- **Purpose**: Finalize and confirm additions to Spotify.
- **User Actions**:
  - Receive a "confirm and add to Spotify?" prompt after sorting.
  - Choose to confirm or return to editing.

## Settings

- **Purpose**: Customize app settings and preferences.
- **User Actions**:
  - Disconnect from Spotify.
  - Set preferences for automatic updates.
  - Choose between dark mode or light mode.
  - Manage notifications.

---
